Original Article

Can cereal-based oral contrast agents-assisted ultrasound
become an alternative to non-contrast magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) in radiological follow-up for pancreatic cystic
lesions?
Jiang Ji1,2, Xinlong Shi1,2, Yu Xia1,2#, Luying Gao1,2, Nengwen Luo1,2, Liyuan Ma1,2, Aonan Pan1,2,
Yuang An1,2, Ya Hu2,3, Yuxin Jiang1,2#
1

Department of Ultrasound, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,

Beijing, China; 2State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe and Rare Diseases, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China; 3Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China
Contributions: (I) Conception and design: Y Xia, Y Jiang; (II) Administrative support: Y Xia; (III) Provision of study materials or patients: Y Xia,
Y Hu, L Gao; (IV) Collection and assembly of data: X Shi, L Gao, J Ji, L Ma, A Pan, Y An, N Luo; (V) Data analysis and interpretation: J Ji; (VI)
Manuscript writing: All authors; (VII) Final approval of manuscript: All authors.
#

These authors contributed equally to this work.

Correspondence to: Yu Xia, MD; Yuxin Jiang, MD. Department of Ultrasound, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe and Rare Diseases, Peking Union Medical
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Shuaifuyuan No. 1, Dongcheng District, Beijing
100730, China. Email: xiayupumch@126.com; yuxinjiangxh@163.com.

Background: Pancreatic cystic lesions (PCLs) are recommended to be examined by magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), yet MRI still has limitations, such as high costs, the risk of triggering claustrophobia, and
relatively low availability compared with ultrasound. Oral contrast agents-assisted ultrasound has been used
to examine the gallbladder and stomach, but whether oral contrast agents could improve the accuracy of
transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS) for PCLs and could be a potential alternative to non-contrast MRI for
PCL follow-up has not been studied. This study aimed to explore the value of cereal-based oral contrast
agents in improving the accuracy of PCLs during TAUS.
Methods: This is a prospective cohort study. Patients with PCL who were admitted to our center between
January 2023 and January 2024 were enrolled, and TAUS was performed before and after taking cerealbased oral contrast agents. The imaging quality of the PCL was measured by structural visualization scores.
The structural visualization scores of oral contrast agent-assisted ultrasound and non-contrast MRI were also
compared.
Results: A total of 27 patients with PCLs were enrolled, and 30 PCLs were detected. The sonolucency of
the PCL improved after oral contrast agent administration. Before taking the agent, only 30% of patients
had satisfactory sonolucency; after taking the oral contrast agent, the corresponding proportion reached 80%
(P=0.002). The structural visualization score of the PCL determined by oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS
was higher than that determined without the aid of an agent [1 (0–6) vs. 1 (0–3), P=0.001], which was mainly
reflected in the increase in the number of visible septa after taking the agent. No significant difference was
detected between the structural visualization score of the PCL examined by oral contrast agent-assisted
TAUS and that examined by non-contrast MRI and the correlation between the 2 types of scores were
satisfactory [1 (0–6) vs. 2 (0–7), P=0.070, Spearman correlation factor r=0.880].

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, Vol 14, No 8 August 2024

5603

Conclusions: This study used a structured scoring system to confirm that cereal-based oral contrast agents
could improve the ultrasound quality of PCLs, and the correlation between the quality of oral contrast agentassisted ultrasound and non-contrast MRI findings on PCLs was satisfactory. Further research to improve
visualization of PCLs on TAUS using oral contrast agents could result in TAUS being a potential alternative
to MRI in the follow-up of PCLs in resource-limited situations.
Keywords: Pancreatic cystic lesion (PCL); transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS); oral contrast agent; magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI)
Submitted Feb 26, 2024. Accepted for publication Jun 25, 2024. Published online Jul 26, 2024.
doi: 10.21037/qims-24-367
View this article at: https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Introduction
Pancreatic cystic lesions (PCLs) are a heterogeneous group
of diseases that mainly include serous cystic neoplasm
(SCN), mucinous cystic neoplasm (MCN), intraductal
papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), solid pseudopapillary
neoplasm (SPN), and neuroendocrine tumor (NET) (1).
Patients with PCLs are often asymptomatic, and PCLs
are more likely to be detected during radiological
examinations (2). Thus, although the incidence of PCL
can reach 24% in anatomical studies (3), the rate of PCL
detection via radiological examinations is not high (4).
The structural features and malignant potential of PCLs
vary according to the pathological type (5). For example,
the malignant potential of IPMNs can reach 40% (6).
The management of different PCLs also varies according
to several features of PCLs, including the pathological
type, size, and growth rate (7). For certain PCLs, longterm follow-up is enough; however, for some PCLs, such
as IPMNs, surgical treatment is necessary when some
worrisome features are observed, such as the size of IPMN
exceeding 3 cm (8). Therefore, choosing a proper method
of PCL follow-up is highly important, as is providing
additional information on PCLs for physicians to assist the
decision-making of a suitable management approach. These
patients need appropriate imaging examination methods.
As an economical, convenient, and safe imaging
technique, ultrasound is an important examination method
for screening and monitoring PCLs. At present, the most
commonly used ultrasound method for detecting cystic
pancreatic lesions is fasting transabdominal examination,
but the sensitivity of identifying the structures of the PCL
could be further improved via this method. Although

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is recommended as
a PCL examination approach by guidelines (7,9), it still
has limitations, such as high costs, the risk of triggering
claustrophobia, and relatively low availability compared
with ultrasound. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) can
improve the accuracy of identifying PCLs compared with
transabdominal ultrasonography but is less commonly used
since it is an invasive examination.
Oral contrast agents have emerged to assist
transabdominal ultrasonography in recent years. The
major type of oral contrast agent uses cereal powder as
its main ingredient and can quickly fill the stomach after
gelatinization of the starch, and thus expel gases inside
the stomach so that the PCL behind the stomach can be
displayed more clearly (10). Consequently, oral contrast
agents have been found to be valuable for improving the
accuracy of transabdominal ultrasonography for detecting
gastric and bile duct lesions (11,12) and for identifying the
structure of a normal pancreas (13). However, no studies
have evaluated whether oral contrast agents improve the
visualization accuracy of the internal structure of the PCL
during transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS).
In this study, PCL patients were prospectively enrolled
and underwent TAUS before and after taking cerealbased oral contrast agents. The value of cereal-based oral
contrast agents in improving the accuracy of PCLs during
TAUS was explored, and the accuracy of oral contrast
agent-assisted TAUS PCL images and non-contrast
MRI PCL images were also compared. We present the
following article in accordance with the STROBE reporting
checklist (available at https://qims.amegroups.com/article/
view/10.21037/qims-24-367/rc).

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Ji et al. Oral contrast agents in ultrasound of pancreatic cysts

5604

Methods

Ultrasonography and MRI

Patients

The sonolucency of the cystic lesions in the images
was analyzed, the imaging quality of the PCL before
and after administration of the oral contrast agent was
scored according to the structure of the PCL, and the
PCL structures were graded as follows: A was defined as
the number of septa in the PCL, which was equal to the
number of locules −1 (e.g., for uniocular cysts, A =0). B was
defined as the septum/wall thickness score, which was 1
(either the septum or wall was thicker than 2 mm) or 0 (no
septum/wall was thicker than 2 mm). C was defined as the
papillary structure score, which was 1 (presence of at least
1 papilla in the cyst) or 0 (no papilla were present in the
cyst). D was defined as the calcification score, which was the
number of calcifications in the lesion. E was defined as the
pancreatic duct score, which was 1 (the pancreatic duct was
wider than 2 mm) or 0 (the pancreatic duct was not wider
than 2 mm). The structure visualization score was defined as
A+B+C+D+E, and the structural visualization scores of the
PCL sonographs before and after taking the oral contrast
agent were recorded. For participants who also underwent
MRI, the structural visualization score of the MRI images
of the PCL was also recorded.

This is a prospective cohort study. Patients with PCL who
were admitted to Peking Union Medical College Hospital
between January 2023 and January 2024 were prospectively
enrolled. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (I) PCL
found by previous imaging, and (II) aged 18–80 years. The
exclusion criteria for patients were as follows: (I) diabetes,
(II) a history of pyloric obstruction, (III) allergic to cerealbased oral contrast agents, (IV) acute pancreatitis, and (V)
missing data. Patients were followed-up until a surgery for
PCL was conducted, or the follow-up time had reached
least 3 months. The patients who were lost to follow-up
within 3 months and did not receive surgery were excluded
from the study. The sex, age, symptoms, reasons for
undergoing surgery/aspiration (when applicable), type of
surgery (when applicable), and the pathological subtypes
(if available) were recorded. The study was conducted in
accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki (as revised
in 2013). The study was approved by institutional ethics
committee of Peking Union Medical College Hospital (No.
I-24PJ0102), and informed consent was provided by all
individual participants.

Statistical analysis

TAUS imaging before and after taking oral contrast
agents
TAUS scans were performed by a Philips IU22 or a
Philips EPIQ color Doppler ultrasound instrument
(Philips, Amsterdam, Netherlands) with a convex array
transducer at a frequency of 2–5 MHz. The patients fasted
for at least 8 hours and underwent traditional ultrasound
scans. Then, they were administered oral contrast agents,
and a traditional ultrasound scan was performed again.
The oral ultrasound contrast agent (Huzhou East Asia
Pharmaceutical Products Co., Ltd., Huzhou, China) was
prepared according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
Then, 50 g of the oral contrast agent was mixed with
450 mL of boiled water. The sonograph was analyzed
separately by 2 radiologists specializing in ultrasound
with at least 5 years of experience and who were blinded
to the pathological results, clinical diagnoses, and other
radiological data to reduce information bias. When
disagreement occurred between the 2 doctors, conclusions
were reached after consulting a third doctor specializing in
ultrasound for more than 20 years.

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

The estimated sample size was calculated based on the
results of the pre-experiment: the proportion of a satisfying
sonolucency by TAUS was 40% before taking the oral
contrast agent, and 70% after taking the oral contrast agent.
Therefore, the estimated sample size was 20. This sample
size would provide the trial with 80% power to reject the
null hypothesis at a 2.5% significance level (with noninferior hypothesis). Data analysis was performed using
SPSS 25.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA). Continuous
variables are presented as the median and range or mean ±
standard error of mean (SEM). The structural visualization
scores of the patients before and after taking oral contrast
agents were compared by the Wilcoxon test. The
sonolucency of the PCL before and after oral contrast agent
administration was compared via the McNemar test. The
correlation between the structural visualization scores of
the sonographs after taking the oral contrast agent and the
structural visualization scores of the MRIs were analyzed
by the Spearman correlation test. A P value <0.05 was
considered to indicate statistical significance.

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, Vol 14, No 8 August 2024

Results
Patient clinical characteristics
A total of 27 patients with PCL were enrolled and analyzed
(Figure 1), including 11 males and 16 females, with a
median age of 52 (22–72) years. The median follow-up
time was 9 (1–27) months, with 5 patients receiving surgery
within 3 months due to worrisome features having been
observed through imaging. A total of 3 patients experienced
abdominal pain before the detection of PCL, 1 patient had
symptoms of abdominal discomfort after eating, 1 patient
had jaundice, and the remaining 22 patients had no obvious
symptoms before the detection of PCL. Among the 27
patients, 10 patients underwent surgery or aspiration biopsy

33 patients screened for eligibility
3 patients with diabetes
30 patients enrolled

3 patients did not receive surgery
and were followed for <3 months

7 patients received
surgery

20 patients were
followed for ≥3 months

Figure 1 The diagram of patient enrollment.

5605

because high-risk features were observed by imaging or
serum examination, or certain symptoms persisted. A total
of 7 patients underwent surgery, and the pathological results
revealed that 3 had MCNs, 1 had SCN, 2 had IPMNs, and
1 had an SPN. The reasons for undergoing surgery, types
of surgery, and corresponding pathology of these 7 patients
are listed in Table 1. Among 3 patients who underwent PCL
aspiration biopsy, no malignant tumor cells were found in
their aspiration samples. The remaining 17 patients had
regular follow-up for their PCLs.
Sonographic features of PCL
A total of 30 PCLs were detected in 27 patients; 3 lesions
were found in 1 patient, and 2 lesions were found in 1
patient. All PCLs could be observed before the application
of the oral contrast agent. Among the lesions, 9 lesions were
located at the head of the pancreas, 11 were located at the
body of the pancreas, and 10 were located at the tail of the
pancreas. The median maximum diameter of the lesions
before taking the oral contrast agent was 2.7 (range, 0.43–
7.3) cm, and the median maximum diameter of lesions after
taking the oral contrast agent was 2.4 (range, 0.60–8.4) cm.
Moreover, there was no significant difference between the
maximum diameter of the PCL before and after taking the
oral contrast agent (P=0.596).
The sonolucency of the PCL improved after the patients
were administered the oral contrast agent compared with
that during fasting. Before taking the oral contrast agent, a

Table 1 Information of patients who underwent surgery
Patient
No.

Location of PCL Reason for undergoing surgery

Type of surgery

1

Pancreatic tail

Spleen-preserving distal pancreatomy Mucinous cystic neoplasm

2

Pancreatic head A dilated pancreatic duct was
detected in MRI

3

Pancreatic tail

Presence of symptom (abdominal pain) Spleen-preserving distal pancreatomy Serous cystic neoplasm

4

Pancreatic tail

Elevation of serum CA19-9

Spleen-preserving distal pancreatomy Mucinous cystic neoplasm

5

Pancreatic tail

Cyst fluid cytology indicated
high-grade dysplasia

Distal pancreatectomy with
splenectomy

Mucinous cystic neoplasm

6

Pancreatic body A solid component was detected in
MRI

Middle pancreatectomy

Solid-pseudopapillary
neoplasm

7

Pancreatic head A dilated pancreatic duct was
and body
detected in MRI

Pancreatectomy

Intraductal papillary
mucinous neoplasm

A mural nodule was detected in MRI

Pancreaticoduodenectomy

Pathology

Intraductal papillary
mucinous neoplasm

PCL, pancreatic cystic lesion; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; CA19-9, carbohydrate antigen 19-9.

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Ji et al. Oral contrast agents in ultrasound of pancreatic cysts

5606

A

B

Figure 2 The ultrasound images of a 66-year-old male patient with a PCL located in the head of pancreas. Before taking cereal-based oral
contrast agent (A), the sonolucency of PCL was poor, while after taking the agent (B), the sonolucency was satisfying. FR, frame rate; S1,
speed 1; C, compress; P, persistence; Gen, general; PCL, pancreatic cystic lesion.

A

B

Figure 3 The ultrasound images of a 66-year-old female patient with a PCL (marked in yellow) located in the body of pancreas. Before
taking cereal-based oral contrast agent (A), only 1 septum thicker than 2 mm was observed, and no papillary structure or calcification was
observed, so the structural visualization score for this PCL was 2. After taking the agent (B), some anechoic areas became more obvious, and
a total of 5 lobules were observed, so the septa number was consequently defined as 4. The thickness of the septum exceeded 2 mm, and 1
calcification was observed (arrow), so the structural visualization score after taking the agent was 6. FR, frame rate; RS, resolution-speed; C,
compress; P, persistence; Gen, general; PCL, pancreatic cystic lesion.

total of 9 PCLs (30%) had satisfactory sonolucency. After
taking the oral contrast agent, a total of 24 patients (80%)
with PCL had satisfactory sonolucency (P=0.002; Figure 2).
The median structure visualization score was 1 (0–6) after
the patients took the agents, and this score was significantly
greater than that before the patients took the oral contrast
agents [1 (0–3), P=0.001; Figure 3]. The number of
observed septa in the 10 PCLs was changed after the agent
was administered. Specifically, the number of observed
septa increased in 8 PCLs, and the number decreased in
2 PCLs. For 4 PCLs, no cyst wall/septum thicker than
2 mm was observed before taking the agent, but a cyst wall/
partition with a thickness >2 mm was observed after taking
the agent. For 6 PCLs, no papillary structure was observed
before taking the agent, but the papillary structure could be

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

observed after taking the agent. For 1 PCL, no calcification
was observed before the agent was taken, but 1 calcification
was observed after the agent was taken. For 1 PCL, no
dilated pancreatic duct was observed before the agent was
taken, but a dilated pancreatic duct was observed after the
agent was taken.
Correlation between the PCL structure visualization score
on ultrasound images after taking the oral contrast agent
and that on non-contrast-MRI images
Among the 27 patients, a total of 19 patients with 21 PCLs
underwent non-contrast MRI. To compare the accuracy
of ultrasound assisted by an oral contrast agent with
that of MRI, the correlation between the PCL structure

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, Vol 14, No 8 August 2024

visualization scores of these 2 examination approaches
was analyzed. On MRI, the location of the PCL in 19
patients was consistent with the location detected by oral
contrast agent-assisted ultrasound. The median maximum
diameter of the PCL on MRI was 2.4 (0.47–5.0) cm,
and no significant difference was detected between the
maximal diameter of PCL on MRI and oral contrast agentassisted ultrasound (P=0.101). No significant difference was
detected between the median PCL structure visualization
score determined by oral contrast agent-assisted ultrasound
[1 (0–6)] and MRI [2 (0–7), P=0.070], and the PCL
structure visualization scores obtained by the 2 examination
approaches were significantly correlated (r=0.880, P<0.001).
Among them, the septum numbers observed via oral
contrast agent-assisted TAUS and non-contrast MRI were
different for the 6 PCLs. A total of 5 PCLs had more
septa observed via MRI, and 1 PCL had fewer septa. In 2
PCLs, no cyst wall/septum thicker than 2 mm was observed
during oral contrast agent-assisted ultrasound, but a cyst
wall/septum thicker than 2 mm was observed during
non-contrast MRI. In 4 PCLs, the numbers of papillary
structures observed during the 2 examination approaches
were different, and the number of papillary structures
observed on MRI was greater than that observed on oral
contrast agent-assisted ultrasound.
Discussion
The management of PCLs varies. For certain types of
PCL, regular follow-up is essential, and these types of
PCL require proper imaging technologies (14). There is
room for improvement in the accuracy of transabdominal
ultrasonography for accessing the PCL since the pancreas
is often hidden behind gastrointestinal gases during
examination (15). Therefore, it is necessary to optimize
traditional ultrasound examinations to improve the
detection rate of PCLs and the clarity of PCL ultrasound
images. The oral contrast agent can fill the stomach and
eliminate the interference of gastrointestinal gas on TAUS
examination of organs in the deep area of the abdomen (11).
In addition, oral contrast agents are denser in texture than
plain water and therefore can remain in the gastrointestinal
tract for a longer period (16), giving ultrasonographers
enough time to access the PCL. This advantage is more
important in the evaluation of the PCL than in the
evaluation of the normal pancreas. This study was the first
to explore the value of cereal-based oral contrast agents
in ultrasound examinations of PCL through a prospective

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

5607

cohort, and for the first time, a structured score was used to
quantitatively compare the clarity and sonolucency of PCL
before and after taking the oral contrast agent.
Since the oral contrast agent eliminated the interference
of gastric gas on the PCL to the greatest extent, the
sonolucency of the PCL after oral contrast agent
administration was significantly greater than that during
fasting TAUS. With the improvement in sonolucency, the
internal structure of the PCL became more clearly visible.
In this study, the main structural characteristics of the
PCL (number of septa, septum/wall thickness, papillary
structure, calcification) that were of interest in the previous
literature (6,17,18) were included in the quantitative
evaluation, so were the high-risk features such as the dilated
pancreatic duct, and it was found that the overall structural
visualization score after taking the oral contrast agent was
greater than that before taking the agent. After taking the
oral contrast agent, the internal structure of the PCL could
be more clearly observed by TAUS. The most prominent
changes in the structural visualization scores before and
after taking the oral contrast agent were the number of
septa in the PCL, the thickening of the cyst wall/septum,
and the presence of a visible papillary structure. The
number of septa and the thickness of the cyst wall/septum
in the PCL may be related to the pathological classification.
Zhong et al. (18) examined the MCN and SCN by EUS
and reported that the SCN tended to contain more septa
and thinner cyst walls. In addition, Fan et al. (17) reported
that the papillary structure was more likely to be present in
NETs than in SCNs and MCNs. Therefore, the application
of an oral contrast agent could increase the value of TAUS
in the diagnosis, classification, or follow-up of PCLs.
In this study, the images of oral contrast agent-assisted
ultrasound of PCLs were further compared with the noncontrast MRI images; it was found that there was no
significant difference between the structured visualization
scores of the oral contrast agent-assisted ultrasound
images and that of the non-contrast MRI images, and the
Spearman correlation factor of these two was 0.880, which
indicated a good correlation. Non-contrast MRI is currently
the recommended radiological examination approach for
evaluating PCL (15), but this approach has limitations, such
as high cost, risk of causing claustrophobia, and limited
use in patients with implanted metal devices. The use of
oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS not only retains the
advantages of traditional ultrasound but also improves the
accuracy of its image display. According to our study, the
internal structures observed by oral contrast agent-assisted

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Ji et al. Oral contrast agents in ultrasound of pancreatic cysts

5608

TAUS and non-contrast MRI were comparable to some
extent.
This study has several limitations. The number of
enrolled patients was limited. Most of the patients did not
undergo surgical resection, and pathological diagnoses
were lacking; therefore, an in-depth analysis of the
correlation between the structural visualization scores
and the pathological classification was not available. Since
many patients did not undergo EUS examination, the
accuracy of oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS and EUS
was not compared. Nevertheless, this study preliminarily
explored the value of a cereal-based oral contrast agent
in the examination of PCLs via TAUS and confirmed
that the use of an oral contrast agent could improve the
accuracy of ultrasonography via a structured scoring
system. Additionally, with the assistance of an oral contrast
agent, the accuracy of TAUS for accessing the PCL was
comparable with that of non-contrast MRI to some extent,
suggesting that oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS could be
an alternative to non-contrast MRI for PCL follow-up in
resource-limited area, or patients who cannot tolerate MRI,
such as those with metal implants. However, a randomized
and controlled comparative study on oral contrast agentassisted TAUS and non-contrast MRI/EUS is needed
to explore whether oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS
could be a proper alternative to non-contrast MRI/EUS.
Nonetheless, these findings provide a basis for further PCL
ultrasound research on oral contrast agents.
Conclusions
Oral contrast agent has been used in TAUS for gallbladder
disease, yet no study has applied it in TAUS for PCL.
This prospective study used a structured scoring system to
confirm that cereal-based oral contrast agent could improve
the ultrasound quality of PCLs, and the correlation between
the quality of oral contrast agent-assisted TAUS and noncontrast MRI findings on PCLs was satisfactory. Further
research to improve visualization of PCLs on TAUS using
oral contrast agents could result in TAUS being a potential
alternative to MRI in the follow-up of PCLs in resourcelimited situations.
Acknowledgments

Reporting Checklist: The authors have completed the
STROBE reporting checklist. Available at https://qims.
amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/qims-24-367/rc
Conflicts of Interest: All authors have completed the
ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at https://
qims.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/qims-24367/coif). All authors report that this study was supported
by the National High Level Hospital Clinical Research
Funding of Peking Union Medical College Hospital
(No. 2022-PUMCH-D-001). The authors have no other
conflicts of interest to declare.
Ethical Statement: The authors are accountable for all
aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related
to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are
appropriately investigated and resolved. The study was
conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki (as
revised in 2013). The study was approved by institutional
ethics committee of Peking Union Medical College
Hospital (No. I-24PJ0102), and informed consent was
provided by all individual participants.
Open Access Statement: This is an Open Access article
distributed in accordance with the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 4.0 International
License (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), which permits the noncommercial replication and distribution of the article with
the strict proviso that no changes or edits are made and the
original work is properly cited (including links to both the
formal publication through the relevant DOI and the license).
See: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
References
1.
2.
3.

4.

Funding: The study was supported by the National High
Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding of Peking Union
Medical College Hospital (No. 2022-PUMCH-D-001).

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

Footnote

5.

Larson A, Kwon RS. Natural History of Pancreatic Cysts.
Dig Dis Sci 2017;62:1770-7.
Verbesey JE, Munson JL. Pancreatic cystic neoplasms.
Surg Clin North Am 2010;90:411-25.
Kimura W, Nagai H, Kuroda A, Muto T, Esaki Y. Analysis
of small cystic lesions of the pancreas. Int J Pancreatol
1995;18:197-206.
Pușcașu CI, Rimbaş M, Mateescu RB, Larghi A, Cauni V.
Advances in the Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cystic Lesions.
Diagnostics (Basel) 2022;12:1779.
Sarno A, Tedesco G, De Robertis R, Marchegiani G, Salvia

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, Vol 14, No 8 August 2024

R, D'Onofrio M. Pancreatic cystic neoplasm diagnosis:
Role of imaging. Endosc Ultrasound 2018;7:297-300.
6. Jeurnink SM, Vleggaar FP, Siersema PD. Overview
of the clinical problem: facts and current issues of
mucinous cystic neoplasms of the pancreas. Dig Liver Dis
2008;40:837-46.
7. van Huijgevoort NCM, Del Chiaro M, Wolfgang
CL, van Hooft JE, Besselink MG. Diagnosis and
management of pancreatic cystic neoplasms: current
evidence and guidelines. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol
2019;16:676-89.
8. Ohtsuka T, Fernandez-Del Castillo C, Furukawa T,
Hijioka S, Jang JY, Lennon AM, Miyasaka Y, Ohno
E, Salvia R, Wolfgang CL, Wood LD. International
evidence-based Kyoto guidelines for the management of
intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas.
Pancreatology 2024;24:255-70.
9. Elta GH, Enestvedt BK, Sauer BG, Lennon AM. ACG
Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Pancreatic Cysts. Am J Gastroenterol 2018;113:464-79.
10. Wu S, Zhuang H, Zhao JY, Wang YF. Gastrocolic fistula in
Crohn's disease detected by oral agent contrast-enhanced
ultrasound: A case report of a novel ultrasound modality.
World J Gastroenterol 2020;26:2119-25.
11. Young A, Yusuf GT, Fang C, Metafa A, Gupta S, Sidhu
PS. Cholecystoduodenal fistula identified on oral contrastenhanced ultrasound. J Ultrasound 2022;25:339-42.
12. Liu Z, Guo J, Sun S, Ren W, Tang S, Xie L, Huang
L. Evaluation of transabdominal ultrasound after oral

13.

14.
15.

16.

17.

18.

5609

administration of an echoic cellulose-based gastric
ultrasound contrast agent for demonstrating small gastric
subepithelial masses. Abdom Imaging 2014;39:424-31.
Xu W, Xu T, Liu W, Li F, Yang X, Li T, Yao J. A cohort
study on the effects of gastrointestinal adjuvant on
pancreatic transabdominal ultrasound visual quality. Hebei
Medical Journal 2020;42:3113-5.
Coban S, Basar O, Brugge WR. Pancreatic Cystic
Neoplasms. Gastroenterol Clin North Am 2022;51:537-59.
Sun Y, Yang S, Qi E, Liu F, Zhou F, Lu Y, Liang P, Ye H,
Yu X. Comparative Diagnostic Evaluation with ContrastEnhanced Ultrasound, Computed Tomography and
Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Patients with Pancreatic
Cystic Neoplasms. Cancer Manag Res 2020;12:2889-98.
Liu Z, Dou X, Guo J, Zhao Y, Zhang J, Ren W, Tang
S, Zhang Y, Zhang X, Huang L, Lin L. Utility of
Transabdominal Ultrasonography Enhanced by Oral
Cellulose-Based Contrast Agent in Depicting Varices at
Cardia and Fundus. Ultrasound Med Biol 2020;46:1428-34.
Fan Z, Yan K, Wang Y, Qiu J, Wu W, Yang L, Chen M.
Application of Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound in Cystic
Pancreatic Lesions Using a Simplified Classification
Diagnostic Criterion. Biomed Res Int 2015;2015:974621.
Zhong L, Chai N, Linghu E, Li H, Yang J, Tang P.
A prospective study on endoscopic ultrasound for
the differential diagnosis of serous cystic neoplasms
and mucinous cystic neoplasms. BMC Gastroenterol
2019;19:127.

Cite this article as: Ji J, Shi X, Xia Y, Gao L, Luo N, Ma L,
Pan A, An Y, Hu Y, Jiang Y. Can cereal-based oral contrast
agents-assisted ultrasound become an alternative to noncontrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in radiological
follow-up for pancreatic cystic lesions? Quant Imaging Med
Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609. doi: 10.21037/qims-24-367

© Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.

Quant Imaging Med Surg 2024;14(8):5602-5609 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/qims-24-367

